
# SwEnt Milestone 1 Feedback

This first milestone M1 serves as a checkpoint at which we provide you with formal feedback on how you are coming together as a team, organizing yourselves, adopting good software engineering practices, and making progress toward delivering incremental value to your users. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The goal of our evaluation is not to assess whether you are top-tier Android developers or software testers, this will be assessed in earnest in subsequent milestones, once you've had the opportunity to gain experience and acquire the relevant skills. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M1 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M1.md) document.

We looked at several aspects, grouped into three categories: app design, app quality & delivery, and Scrum.

- [App Design](#app-design)

  - [Architecture](#architecture)

  - [Implementation](#implementation)

  - [Figma](#figma)

  - [UI](#ui)

- [Quality & Delivery](#quality-&-delivery)

  - [Automated Testing](#automated-testing)

  - [Automated Delivery](#automated-delivery)

  - [End-to-End Application Behavior](#end-to-end-application-behavior)

- [Scrum](#scrum)

  - [Documents](#documents)

  - [Backlogs & Planning](#backlogs-&-planning)

# App Design

## Architecture

We looked at the high-level design of your app. We checked whether the UI, data layer, and corresponding dependencies are present. We evaluated whether your architecture diagram is of good quality and reflects the architecture of the app.

The correct layers were present in the architecture diagram.

The diagram represents well your app !

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 5.

## Implementation

We looked at several implementation aspects, such as whether authentication is done safely, whether all sensitive data is properly safeguarded using crypto and secure APIs, and whether the permissions requested by your app are truly needed.

You used the firebase's authentication, which is good ! And well done for adding the login with the email and password

We didn't find any leaked API key, or secret  in your project, nice work !

You don't ask for phone permissions that are not useful for your app, which is good !

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 5.

## Figma

We reviewed how you used Figma in these first Sprints of your project. We took into account whether you had done wireframes and mockups, whether these contained the main application flows and the core features, and whether the screens were linked. Overall, we wanted to see whether it's clear how the pieces work together.

Both your wireframe and mockup are present and of good quality !

Your Figma is very well structured. We can clearly understand the structure of your app and the vision that you have. Good job!
(For the wireframe, double check that the user stories are placed at the right place).
For example, the user story 6 refers to joining activites but the screen next to it shows the user creating an activity. 

The UI is good looking, but the buttons don't trigger anything in the demo, which could bring a lot to your figma. However, the arrows you added in the wireframe are very useful. Good job!

For this part, you received 13 points out of a maximum of 15.

## UI

We checked whether the elements of your app's UI are consistent (fonts, colors, etc.) and whether the layout is responsive (i.e., adapts to different screen sizes and orientations).

The UI is consistent in the app. Good job!

When rotating the phone, we weren't able to log in and some of the content was hidden. Please make your UI responsive. (This can be done with lazy columns and sizes in % of the screen)

For this part, you received 3 points out of a maximum of 5.

# Quality & Delivery

## Automated Testing

We looked at whether you configured your CI to integrate with Sonar, whether your CI passes, and of course whether your CI automatically runs the test suite. Then we checked the statement coverage achieved by your test suite. We also looked at whether you have at least one meaningful UI test per screen, one meaningful unit test per repository, one meaningful unit test per view-model, and one meaningful end-to-end test.

Sonar can correctly fetch the informations from your app, nice work !

The last run of the CI on main were not successfull, which should be prevented

Tests are properly ran, good job !

Your line coverage was 83%, congratulations ! 

You did a good job testing your UI, nice work ! Some parts (like clicking on button) were omitted, please do it for next milestones 

If you check on sonar, some repository tests have a really low coverage,which should be improved for next milestones.

Well done ! You managed to write some good tests for your viewmodels.

We did not find any end-to-end tests in your repository. Try to work towards that goal for next sprints!

For this part, you received 24 points out of a maximum of 33.

## Automated Delivery

We checked whether you have set up your CI to automatically build the APK, and it does so successfully. We also wanted to see if the APK could be installed and run on a real device.

There's no CI generating an APK on your repo. Try to implement that in the future.

The APK you provided could be installed without difficulties on our phone.

For this part, you received 3 points out of a maximum of 7.

## End-to-End Application Behavior

We then interacted with your app manually, this was fun. We flagged any problems we encountered, such as crashes or bugs, and we classified the bugs into minor vs. major bugs.

We found some minor bugs in your app:
- During the login with email, the password field should not display the clear password to the user, but a special caracter for privacy.
- You should verify what type of input is given to your fields: we should not be able to put "word" in a date
- We did not penalize you for that but when creating a profile, please add a small text explaining what is expected in the interests field.
- Some buttons didn't have any actions mapped to them and you should avoid having that. At least put a toast message telling that the feature is unavailable or disable the button.

Here are some major bugs found in your app:
- If I create an account, and directly go to my profile, it doesn't work. We have to re-login in the app
- If not logged as a guest, you can get stuck in the profile page (loading the profile and you have to close the app)

Here are some crashes encountered during our test:
- App crashed when creating an activity, and this often doesn't create anything

For this part, you have been penalized -8 points.

# Scrum

## Documents

The main things we looked for was whether you documented your team Retrospective and Stand-Up in a timely and thorough manner.

Your team retrospectives were filled on time.

Your standup sheets were filled on time.

The sheets were thoroughly completed and you wrote down some important points and good ideas !

For this part, you received 10 points out of a maximum of 10.

## Backlogs & Planning

We analyzed your product backlog, Sprint 3 backlog, and the Scrum board. For the PB, we checked whether it was up-to-date and whether you had populated it with user stories for the first epic and for a second epic. For the Sprint 3 backlog, we looked at whether it was up-to-date and whether the task descriptions were clear. We looked at whether tasks were assigned, whether they had a time estimate, and whether they had a priority. Finally, we evaluated whether your
Scrum board was up-to-date and ready for Sprint 3.

Your product backlog contains coherent and well-written user stories that reflect what you want to do, nice job !

We could not find the EPICs in your project. We based ourselves on EPICs we deducted from your user stories. 

The tasks present in your sprint backlog are the ones for the sprint 3, there are non left from sprint 2,. Good job keeping your SCRUM Board updated !

The tasks names are clear, good job !

You added tasks for sprint 3, but there are not a lot of them with people assigned.
None of the issues have time estimates assigned to them, please do it directly when creating them

All tasks have a priority written on them, which is good ! 

You updated all the tasks from sprint 2 from your scrumboard and it is ready for sprint 3 ! Good job !

For this part, you received 14 points out of a maximum of 20.

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M1 is 4.45. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/private/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!
