# Milestone M3: Team Feedback

This milestone M3 is the culmination of your SwEnt journey, and it gives us the final opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you performed in the project. By now, you should be capable of demonstrating a solid command of the Scrum methodology and collaborative teamwork, and be able to deliver a high-quality, application that is ready for real users.
This feedback report is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback that you received from your coaches during the weekly meetings, over email, on Discord, etc.

You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M3 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M3.md) document.
As mentioned before, the standards for M2 were elevated relative to M1, and this progression continued into M3: we now hold you to the highest professional standard in SwEnt.

For this milestone, we looked at several aspects, grouped as follows:

- Application
  - [Completeness](#app-completeness)
  - [Functionality](#app-functionality)
  - [User Experience](#app-user-experience)
- [Design and Implementation](#design-and-implementation)
- [Testing and CI Pipeline](#testing-and-ci-pipeline)
- Process
  - [Documentation](#process-documentation)
  - [Autonomy](#process-autonomy)

## App: Completeness

We first evaluated the depth and complexity of the main __epics__ in your app, along with their contribution to the app, the tangible value they provide to the user, and their alignment with the app’s goals.
We evaluated the extent to which your app meets the __course requirements__ articulated at the start of the semester, and whether they are implemented effectively, they integrate seamlessly, and are indeed essential to the app.
We then looked at the __robustness and completeness__ of the different features you implemented: are all the features finished and polished, are they secure and bug-free, and are they thoughtfully designed.



- The EPICS you implemented are relevant, mostly complete and serves well the goal of your app, nice work!

- The offline mode is implemented, but as a user, If I am enrolled in an activity, I expect to be able to see the details even if I am not connected to the internet (from the profile screen). Also the profile picture is not cached, which makes the profile page a bit weird looking. The page you made for the map and the create activities offline is good looking!

- For the sensor, you should not ask multiple time the user if he denies access and in general, it is a bit odd to be asked for camera permission on the login page and not when taking a picture (Least privilege principle). Moreover, if I deny access to the camera, I should not be able to go to the camera screen, which is fully black. (Just deny access)


- Otherwise, your features were mostly complete and you put a lot of effort to make them robust, but we still encountered some inconsistencies that are explained bellow.


For this part, you received 6.6 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## App: Functionality

In this context, we assessed your app's ability to __handle unexpected inputs__ provided by clueless or malicious users (including spamming buttons, entering wrong inputs, stopping a process mid-way, etc.); we wanted to see that your app handles all edge cases gracefully, has comprehensive error handling, and includes robust mechanisms for maintaining stability under stress.

We then evaluated the performance and reliability of the final product, i.e., __the APK__: we wanted to see that your APK is stable and delivers excellent performance, the UI responds quickly and has seamless navigation.

Next we looked into your implementation of __user authentication and multi-user support__: does the app correctly manage users, can users personalize their accounts, does the app support session persistence, are multi-user interactions well supported, can a user recover a lost password, can accounts be used on another device, and is account information preserved when switching devices.


We encountered two major bugs when tasting your app:

- If you use the search filter, deny location access and enter a string, the app just closes. This indicate a lack of error handling on this feature

- If we remember correctly, it was already the case in the last milestone, and we got the same issue: It was not possible to create an account using the email/password method. It just fails

On the UI side:
- If you app doesn't support it, you should lock the rotation of the phone, since this leads to unaccessible content.


For this part, you received 5.1 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## App: User Experience

For this part, we wanted to see how __intuitive and user-friendly__ the app is for real users. Beyond having good usability, did you pay attention to streamlining the interactions, is it easy to figure out, can new users start making good use of the app quickly, are the interaction flows well thought out and refined.


- You made some incredible improvement in only few sprints for the UI, but the user experience and some components have still some room for improvements, but you still made some great progress, congrats!


For this part, you received 1.5 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Design and Implementation

We evaluated whether __your code is of high quality and employs best practices__, is it modular and robust, etc.
We expect the codebase to be polished, well documented, follow consistent conventions, be modular, and allow for easy modifications.
You should be able to employ advanced techniques by now, such as asynchronous functions (flows, coroutines), good resource management, and automated dependency injection (e.g., with Hilt).

We assessed your overall __app architecture and design__, looking in particular at aspects surrounding robustness and scalability.
We looked at both the codebase and the documentation of the app (Wiki and architecture diagram).
We expect your design to demonstrate thoughtful consideration for performance, maintainability, and future growth.




- The general code quality of your project has seen lots of progress in this last milestone, but there are still some old piece of code that do not conform to the best practices. You could have used the static tools like Sonar cloud a bit more to find where problems were, even though it doesn't contain everything. (and some occurence of commented out code still present in main)

- You did some good progress following the MVVM architecture and your implementation choices make sense for your app, and could allow you to scale it well. 


For this part, you received 6.6 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Testing and CI Pipeline

The first aspect we looked at here was your __test suite__, in terms of both quality and the final line coverage.
We expect testing the be rigorous and to cover all components and edge cases, and they should validate every significant user journey.
Line coverage should be getting close to 90%.
Your end-to-end tests should be detailed and include error-handling scenarios.
The tests should be well-documented and easy to maintain.
Finally, your test suite should demonstrate  advanced techniques, mock data for performance testing, and automated regression tests.

We then considered the quality of your __repository setup and the CI pipeline__, and how professional it is and how easy it is for new developers to bring contributions to the project.
We expect your repository to have a logical structure, use consistent naming, and take full advantage of CI (code quality checks, linting, formatting, etc.)
Ideally, you should also have automated performance testing, deployment pipelines, and the CI should provide detailed feedback for developers.


- You have achieved 84% of line coverage, which is good! Your repo is setup correctly with a CI and Sonar for the static code anylsis + coverage report


 - Your end-2-end tests are good, but please do not comment out parts of your code. A whole part of the aUserLikesAnActivity() is not executed.


For this part, you received 6.6 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Process: Documentation

We looked at your `README` and GitHub Wiki to evaluate the quality and completeness of __your app’s documentation__. We expect the README and Wiki to be thorough and achieve professional-level clarity and completeness.
They should provide detailed descriptions of the app's architecture, implementation of the features, and the development setup.
We also assessed __your use of Figma and the architecture diagram__ for effective UI design, organization, and app structure planning.
By this stage, we expect your Figma to be complete, up-to-date, and to include UI elements for future features, showing foresight and organization.
The architecture diagram should be comprehensive, providing a clear and detailed overview of the app structure and dependencies.
The architecture should be robust, scalable, and optimized for performance, security, and future development.


- Your Wiki and README are well written, with up to date data! Be sure to not leave any inconsistencies (empty bulltet points) if you were to do such documents in the future

- Your Figma is well made, and you added the navigation, which is always a nice to have! Be sure to not leave any "wireframe like" UI in the mockup. For exeample, on the map with the example activity, you should have put a fake activityinstead of "Title of the activity". 

- You improved your architecture diagram since M2 and it now represents well the features in your app, good job! 


For this part, you received 3.6 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Process: Autonomy

A primary goal of SwEnt is to teach you how to __function autonomously as a team__.
For this part of the evaluation, we assessed you team’s independence, spanning Sprint 6 to Sprint 10, based on the meetings with coaches, Sprint planning, and how you managed risk.
By this stage, coaches should no longer be necessary for the team to operate, i.e., you can organize yourselves, you don't need to be reminded about tasks, and you can conduct the Scrum ceremonies on your own.


- During the meetings, you showed great autonmy and led the meeting professionally, without the need of our intervention, nice work!


For this part, you received 2 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Summary

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M3 is 5.00.

The entire SwEnt staff wishes you the very best in your career, and we look forward to seeing you do great things with what you learned this semester.